README.md, before:

# DQ-MeeRKat
Automating Data Quality Measurement with a Reference-Data-Profile-Annotated Knowledge Graph. In a reference to pop culture (<a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1853728/" target="_blank">Tarantino: Django Unchained (2012)</a>),
the *t* is silent. DQ-MeeRKat implements a novel method for automated and continuous data quality measurement (CDQM), which is based on the creation of <i>reference data profiles</i>. 
The following image illustrates the overall architecture of DQ-MeeRKat. Setup/installation instructions for each component are described in the following paragraphs.

<img src="./documentation/DQ-MeeRKat-architecture.png" width=60% height=60%>

# History
DQ-MeeRKat is a research project initiated by Johannes Kepler University (<a href="https://www.jku.at/en/institute-for-application-oriented-knowledge-processing" target="_blank">JKU</a>) Linz and Software Competence Center Hagenberg (<a href="https://scch.at/en/news" target="_blank">SCCH</a>). 
Founded in July, 2019, back then under the title "BlocK-DaQ", its original purpose was to (1) research further on DQ measurement with the help of Reference Data Profiles (RDPs)
and (2) storage in a Knowledge Graph and (3) on the trust aspect by ensuring authenticity of the RDPs with Blockchains. Therefore
the title BlocK-DaQ (Blockchain-based Knowledge Graph for Data Quality Measurement using Reference data profiles) was born.

However, during research one of our main findings was the redundancy of the Blockchain-aspect for the specific use case of this project, shifting the focus of the implementation
more onto the side of the first two topics, with (3) as an optional addition. Thus outsourcing research on problems with the Blockchain aspect into a different 
sub-project, pursued on a different date. Similar to the "<a href="http://hca.gilead.org.il/ugly_duc.html" target="_blank">ugly duckling</a>" (H.C. Andersen, 1844), our DaQ had to undergo a transformation from
the ugly "BlocK-DaQ" ... to a beautiful DQ-MeeRKat. The main reason for a meerkat instead of a swan has something to do with the 
behaviour of the real animal. Since meerkats are alarm callers (standing on high ground and calling the others in case of an attacking predator, see <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1439-0310.1984.tb00101.x" target="_blank">here</a>),
similarities to our project, whose goal is to create an extensive alarm and crisis management system for observed systems, preferably with machine learning (ML) support, are present.


## Disclaimer
The provided frameworks and Bash-script are tested for Linux Mint 19.2 (Tina) and Windows 10 64bit. 

## Getting Started
DQ-MeeRKat is a Java maven project and in order to build the sources you need the following requirements:
<ol>
  <li>Java JDK 1.8 or higher</li>
  <li>Maven 3.1.0</li>
  <li>GIT</li>
</ol>

Afterwards, in order to execute the program, you need to start influxDB and Grafana.

Run on Linux (Mint): <br/>
```startLinuxEnv.sh``` (for starting InfluxDB and Grafana in one script)<br/>

Windows users have to start executables provided in the following sections.

### InfluxDB
A common choice for storing CDQM results are time-series DBs like InfluxDB, which provides a Java API. Since the Java API was not working by the time of the creation of the project, we replaced it by the browser version. DQ-MeeRKat does not offer an embedded mode (like Derby or GraphDB), but runs InfluxDB outside the Java runtime to persist CDQM results over time. 

Run on Linux: <br/>
```InfluxDB\startInflux.sh``` (for starting InfluxDB server)<br/>
```InfluxDB\startInfluxConsole.sh``` (for querying InfluxDB using the console)

Run on Windows: <br/>
```InfluxDB\influxdb-1.7.7-1_windows\influxd.exe```

### Grafana
<a href="https://grafana.com" target="_blank">Grafana</a> is a browser-based dashboard for visualization. After the start, a browser window is opened with the dashboard URL (http://localhost:3000 by default).

Run on Linux:<br/>
```Grafana\startGrafana.sh```

Run on Windows: <br/>
```Grafana\grafana-6.2.5_windows\bin\grafana-server.exe```

Configure Grafana to execute demos:<br/>
- Provide password for user
- Configuration - Data Sources - Add data source - InfluxDB 
  - URL: http://localhost:8086
  - Basic Auth: add credentials
  - Database: "testSeries"
- Import Demo Dashboards from GitHub directory:
  - Import - Upload .json File:
```Grafana\Dashboard-Exports\*-dashboard.json```

### Pentaho Data Integration
DQ-MeeRKat also enables the possibility to use the generation of RDPs in <a href="https://www.hitachivantara.com/en-us/products/data-management-analytics/pentaho.html" target="_blank">Pentaho Data Integration (PDI) by Hitachi Vantara</a>. DQ-MeeRKat is tested and developed for compatibility of PDI 9.0, found <a href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/pentaho/files/Pentaho%209.0/client-tools/" target="_blank">here</a>. For usage in PDI, the Project has to be exported as a JAR archive (In Eclipse: Export => Export => Jar file). Surrounding folders can be excluded, since only the src folder matters. For correct inclusion the following steps have to be done:
- Creation of folder "DQ-MeeRKat" in <Path-to-Pentaho>\data-integration\plugins
- Place JAR in there
- Create subfolders: \output and \patterns
- Place file for pattern recognition called *.in into the \patterns subfolder

# Blockchain aspect
To generate tamper-free persistance of stored data a blockchain is used. Creating blockchains in Java is a difficult task since Reflections exist (more in section Persistance),
so a pseudo-temper-free (therefore only temper-evident) chain is the nearest result is what can be achieved.

## Hashing Algorithms
Used in BigChainDB and generally a widespread approach:
- Standard Hash: SHA3-256
- Keypair Hash: Ed25519 (Encoded via Base58)

## Microchains
Microchains are a further approach to improve performance of blockchains. Since DSDElements are seperated objects, they can be seperated into several miniature versions of blockchains, one for each DSDElement.
As shown in the tests in the package *demos.alex.benchmarking*, these chains are slightly better in adding and creating (about 9-15 %) and significantly better for accessing data (about 75 %).
Each chain contains a blockchain for the element, adapted with an identifier for the minichain and flags used for merging and deletion control.

# Persistence
To persist changes in the chain and also generate a graph out of it, multiple storing methods are used. These are:
- GraphDB (for storing the RDF based graphs)
- InfluxDB to store records and the values from the data profiles

## GraphDB
GraphDB by ontotext is a software which can be downloaded and installed in its standalone form from http://graphdb.ontotext.com/. This method of storing knowledge graphs was mainly chosen because it supports rdf stores
and is usable via Java in an embedded mode. To store concrete Java objects in GraphDB, they have to be mapped to RDF format. Since Java does not naturally support such a mapping toolbox, an external library has to be chosen.
An aspect, which cannot be forgotten is the connection between Java and GraphDB. The embedded version mainly uses RDF4j as API. 

Run on Windows:<br/>
```GraphDB\ GraphDB_Free-9.0.0.exe```

Open GraphDB Server and Workbench in browser:<br/>
```http://localhost:7200/```

Quick start guide for further usage: http://graphdb.ontotext.com/free/quick-start-guide.html 

Open Demo Dashboard in GraphDB
- Setup - Create new repository
- Repository ID: DQM
- Repository title: DQ-MeeRKat-repo
- Storage folder: <local-path-to-repo>\kg-repo\repositories\kg-repo\storage
- Leave default settings for remaining options
Restart GraphDB and explore graph via Explore - Graphs overview.

## Mapping Java objects to RDF
Three choices for mapping libraries were possible, namely:
- Jackson (converts objects to JSON from which conversion is possible, not used because cyclic references could not be handled)
- Pinto (not used, because is was not supported anymore and more extensive frameworks like Empire are not needed)
- RDFBeans (annotation-based mapping from Java to RDF)

### RDFBeans
RDFBeans (https://rdfbeans.github.io/) is a library, which allows a developer to annotate java classes and fields to generate RDF triples from them. It also supports mapping back from RDF to Java objects as well, which is one of the main reasons why it was chosen instead of the other two libraries. There are mainly four annotations used in this project:
- @RDFNamespaces (used above the class to define namespaces)
- @RDFBean (signalizes that the class is transformable into a RDF format)
- @RDFSubject (used above the getter of the id of this object to easily retrieve it)
- @RDF (used above the getters of all other fields to mark them for transformation)

# Useful links
## API
* GraphDB Quick Start Guide: http://graphdb.ontotext.com/documentation/free/quick-start-guide.html
* InfluxDB: https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.7/
* InfluxDB-Java: https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-java
* InfluxDB: https://www.baeldung.com/java-influxdb
* Grafana Docs: https://grafana.com/docs/
* RDFBeans: https://rdfbeans.github.io/ 
* RDF4j: https://rdf4j.eclipse.org/
* QuaIIe (usage of connectors): http://dqm.faw.jku.at/
* Pentaho Javadoc (Plugin Development): https://javadoc.pentaho.com/kettle900/kettle-core-9.0.0.1-426-javadoc/index.html 

# Used libraries
* ELKI: https://github.com/elki-project/elki <br>used Algorithm: Local Outlier Factor: https://doi.org/10.1145/335191.335388

Commit message:

Added Script for opening InfluxDB and Grafama at once

README.md, after:

# DQ-MeeRKat
Automating Data Quality Measurement with a Reference-Data-Profile-Annotated Knowledge Graph. In a reference to pop culture (<a href="https://www.imdb.com/title/tt1853728/" target="_blank">Tarantino: Django Unchained (2012)</a>),
the *t* is silent. DQ-MeeRKat implements a novel method for automated and continuous data quality measurement (CDQM), which is based on the creation of <i>reference data profiles</i>. 
The following image illustrates the overall architecture of DQ-MeeRKat. Setup/installation instructions for each component are described in the following paragraphs.

<img src="./documentation/DQ-MeeRKat-architecture.png" width=60% height=60%>

# History
DQ-MeeRKat is a research project initiated by Johannes Kepler University (<a href="https://www.jku.at/en/institute-for-application-oriented-knowledge-processing" target="_blank">JKU</a>) Linz and Software Competence Center Hagenberg (<a href="https://scch.at/en/news" target="_blank">SCCH</a>). 
Founded in July, 2019, back then under the title "BlocK-DaQ", its original purpose was to (1) research further on DQ measurement with the help of Reference Data Profiles (RDPs)
and (2) storage in a Knowledge Graph and (3) on the trust aspect by ensuring authenticity of the RDPs with Blockchains. Therefore
the title BlocK-DaQ (Blockchain-based Knowledge Graph for Data Quality Measurement using Reference data profiles) was born.

However, during research one of our main findings was the redundancy of the Blockchain-aspect for the specific use case of this project, shifting the focus of the implementation
more onto the side of the first two topics, with (3) as an optional addition. Thus outsourcing research on problems with the Blockchain aspect into a different 
sub-project, pursued on a different date. Similar to the "<a href="http://hca.gilead.org.il/ugly_duc.html" target="_blank">ugly duckling</a>" (H.C. Andersen, 1844), our DaQ had to undergo a transformation from
the ugly "BlocK-DaQ" ... to a beautiful DQ-MeeRKat. The main reason for a meerkat instead of a swan has something to do with the 
behaviour of the real animal. Since meerkats are alarm callers (standing on high ground and calling the others in case of an attacking predator, see <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1439-0310.1984.tb00101.x" target="_blank">here</a>),
similarities to our project, whose goal is to create an extensive alarm and crisis management system for observed systems, preferably with machine learning (ML) support, are present.


## Disclaimer
The provided frameworks and Bash-script are tested for Linux Mint 19.2 (Tina) and Windows 10 64bit. 

## Getting Started
DQ-MeeRKat is a Java maven project and in order to build the sources you need the following requirements:
<ol>
  <li>Java JDK 1.8 or higher</li>
  <li>Maven 3.1.0</li>
  <li>GIT</li>
</ol>

Afterwards, in order to execute the program, you need to start influxDB and Grafana.

Run on Linux (Mint): <br/>
```startLinuxEnv.sh``` (for starting InfluxDB and Grafana in one script)<br/>

On Windows:<br>
`startWinEnv.bat` (for starting InfluxDB and Grafana in one script)<br/>


Alternatively, Windows users as well as Linux users can also start the executables provided in the following sections manually.

### InfluxDB
A common choice for storing CDQM results are time-series DBs like InfluxDB, which provides a Java API. Since the Java API was not working by the time of the creation of the project, we replaced it by the browser version. DQ-MeeRKat does not offer an embedded mode (like Derby or GraphDB), but runs InfluxDB outside the Java runtime to persist CDQM results over time. 

Run on Linux: <br/>
```InfluxDB\startInflux.sh``` (for starting InfluxDB server)<br/>
```InfluxDB\startInfluxConsole.sh``` (for querying InfluxDB using the console)

Run on Windows: <br/>
```InfluxDB\influxdb-1.7.7-1_windows\influxd.exe```

### Grafana
<a href="https://grafana.com" target="_blank">Grafana</a> is a browser-based dashboard for visualization. After the start, a browser window is opened with the dashboard URL (http://localhost:3000 by default).

Run on Linux:<br/>
```Grafana\startGrafana.sh```

Run on Windows: <br/>
```Grafana\grafana-6.2.5_windows\bin\grafana-server.exe```

Configure Grafana to execute demos:<br/>
- Provide password for user
- Configuration - Data Sources - Add data source - InfluxDB 
  - URL: http://localhost:8086
  - Basic Auth: add credentials
  - Database: "testSeries"
- Import Demo Dashboards from GitHub directory:
  - Import - Upload .json File:
```Grafana\Dashboard-Exports\*-dashboard.json```

### Pentaho Data Integration
DQ-MeeRKat also enables the possibility to use the generation of RDPs in <a href="https://www.hitachivantara.com/en-us/products/data-management-analytics/pentaho.html" target="_blank">Pentaho Data Integration (PDI) by Hitachi Vantara</a>. DQ-MeeRKat is tested and developed for compatibility of PDI 9.0, found <a href="https://sourceforge.net/projects/pentaho/files/Pentaho%209.0/client-tools/" target="_blank">here</a>. For usage in PDI, the Project has to be exported as a JAR archive (In Eclipse: Export => Export => Jar file). Surrounding folders can be excluded, since only the src folder matters. For correct inclusion the following steps have to be done:
- Creation of folder "DQ-MeeRKat" in <Path-to-Pentaho>\data-integration\plugins
- Place JAR in there
- Create subfolders: \output and \patterns
- Place file for pattern recognition called *.in into the \patterns subfolder

# Blockchain aspect
To generate tamper-free persistance of stored data a blockchain is used. Creating blockchains in Java is a difficult task since Reflections exist (more in section Persistance),
so a pseudo-temper-free (therefore only temper-evident) chain is the nearest result is what can be achieved.

## Hashing Algorithms
Used in BigChainDB and generally a widespread approach:
- Standard Hash: SHA3-256
- Keypair Hash: Ed25519 (Encoded via Base58)

## Microchains
Microchains are a further approach to improve performance of blockchains. Since DSDElements are seperated objects, they can be seperated into several miniature versions of blockchains, one for each DSDElement.
As shown in the tests in the package *demos.alex.benchmarking*, these chains are slightly better in adding and creating (about 9-15 %) and significantly better for accessing data (about 75 %).
Each chain contains a blockchain for the element, adapted with an identifier for the minichain and flags used for merging and deletion control.

# Persistence
To persist changes in the chain and also generate a graph out of it, multiple storing methods are used. These are:
- GraphDB (for storing the RDF based graphs)
- InfluxDB to store records and the values from the data profiles

## GraphDB
GraphDB by ontotext is a software which can be downloaded and installed in its standalone form from http://graphdb.ontotext.com/. This method of storing knowledge graphs was mainly chosen because it supports rdf stores
and is usable via Java in an embedded mode. To store concrete Java objects in GraphDB, they have to be mapped to RDF format. Since Java does not naturally support such a mapping toolbox, an external library has to be chosen.
An aspect, which cannot be forgotten is the connection between Java and GraphDB. The embedded version mainly uses RDF4j as API. 

Run on Windows:<br/>
```GraphDB\ GraphDB_Free-9.0.0.exe```

Open GraphDB Server and Workbench in browser:<br/>
```http://localhost:7200/```

Quick start guide for further usage: http://graphdb.ontotext.com/free/quick-start-guide.html 

Open Demo Dashboard in GraphDB
- Setup - Create new repository
- Repository ID: DQM
- Repository title: DQ-MeeRKat-repo
- Storage folder: <local-path-to-repo>\kg-repo\repositories\kg-repo\storage
- Leave default settings for remaining options
Restart GraphDB and explore graph via Explore - Graphs overview.

## Mapping Java objects to RDF
Three choices for mapping libraries were possible, namely:
- Jackson (converts objects to JSON from which conversion is possible, not used because cyclic references could not be handled)
- Pinto (not used, because is was not supported anymore and more extensive frameworks like Empire are not needed)
- RDFBeans (annotation-based mapping from Java to RDF)

### RDFBeans
RDFBeans (https://rdfbeans.github.io/) is a library, which allows a developer to annotate java classes and fields to generate RDF triples from them. It also supports mapping back from RDF to Java objects as well, which is one of the main reasons why it was chosen instead of the other two libraries. There are mainly four annotations used in this project:
- @RDFNamespaces (used above the class to define namespaces)
- @RDFBean (signalizes that the class is transformable into a RDF format)
- @RDFSubject (used above the getter of the id of this object to easily retrieve it)
- @RDF (used above the getters of all other fields to mark them for transformation)

# Useful links
## API
* GraphDB Quick Start Guide: http://graphdb.ontotext.com/documentation/free/quick-start-guide.html
* InfluxDB: https://docs.influxdata.com/influxdb/v1.7/
* InfluxDB-Java: https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb-java
* InfluxDB: https://www.baeldung.com/java-influxdb
* Grafana Docs: https://grafana.com/docs/
* RDFBeans: https://rdfbeans.github.io/ 
* RDF4j: https://rdf4j.eclipse.org/
* QuaIIe (usage of connectors): http://dqm.faw.jku.at/
* Pentaho Javadoc (Plugin Development): https://javadoc.pentaho.com/kettle900/kettle-core-9.0.0.1-426-javadoc/index.html 

# Used libraries
* ELKI: https://github.com/elki-project/elki <br>used Algorithm: Local Outlier Factor: https://doi.org/10.1145/335191.335388
